# gemtext - A simple library for parsing the Gemtext markup language

## Introduction

gemtext is a small and simple library that provides code for parsing the hypertext markup language of the Gemini project.

## Installation

=> https://pypi.org/project/gemtext/ gemtext on PyPI

gemtext is available from pypi and can be installed with your package installer of choice.

With pip:

```shell
pip install gemtext
```

With uv:

```shell
uv add gemtext
```

## Quick start

The library provides a single main parsing class called Gemtext. It is initialised with a text of gemtext and the content property provides a list of lines, typed with their parsed type, each having its own relevant properties.

A very minimal parser might look like this:

```python
import fileinput
from gemtext import Gemtext

def parse_input() -> None:
    for gem_line in Gemtext("".join(fileinput.input())).content:
        print(f"{gem_line!r}")

```

The library contains a simple test command line tool, which can be accessed either via the Python -m switch, or depending on your environment, via the gemtext command. For example, given this content of a file called example.gmi (note the use of ''' rather than ``` in the example, this is just to avoid problems when rendering this example):

```text
# This is a heading

## This is a sub-heading

### This is a sub-sub-heading

=> gemini://davep.gemcities.com/ Dave's test capsule

> This is a deep and meaningful quote

'''
Here is some pre-formatted text.

Here's some more of that text.
'''

* One
* Two
* Three
```

The gemtext command (or python -m gemtext) would produce:

```sh
$ gemtext example.gmi
Heading(content='This is a heading', level=1)
Paragraph(content='')
Heading(content='This is a sub-heading', level=2)
Paragraph(content='')
Heading(content='This is a sub-sub-heading', level=3)
Paragraph(content='')
Link(content="Dave's test capsule", uri='gemini://davep.gemcities.com/')
Paragraph(content='')
Quote(content='This is a deep and meaningful quote')
Paragraph(content='')
PreFormatted(content="Here is some pre-formatted text.\n\nHere's some more of that text.")
Paragraph(content='')
ListItem(content='One')
ListItem(content='Two')
ListItem(content='Three')
```

See the main documentation for the full API.

=> https://gemtext.davep.dev/

=> ../index.gmi Home
