# Rogallo ChangeLog

## v0.12.0

Released: 2026-07-20

* Added `!theme` as a command line command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/186 PR #186
* Added an `OpenFile` command, which opens a file picker dialog for picking a local file to view.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/188 PR #188
* Entering the name of an existing directory in the command line now opens that directory in the file picker dialog.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/188 PR #188
* Added a `ToggleCosyLinkNumbers` command, which moves the link jump numbers over to the left of the link text or back to the right.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/193 PR #193
* Modified `ToggleEmojiRemoval` so that it *doesn't* remove emojis from pre-formatted text.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/196 PR #196

## v0.11.0

Released: 2026-07-19

* Added a `ToggleEmojiRemoval` command to toggle the removal of emoji from the content of a page.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/181 PR #181
* Added a `ToggleANSIEscapeSequenceHandling` command to toggle the processing of ANSI escape sequences on and off.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/181 PR #181
* Turning off support for ANSI escape sequences now actually strips all sequences.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/181 PR #181
* Added the ability to change the in-capsule link icon via the configuration file.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/182 PR #182
* Added the ability to change the outwith-capsule link icon via the configuration file.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/182 PR #182
* Added the ability to change the list item bullet icon via the configuration file.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/182 PR #182

## v0.10.0

Released: 2026-07-18

* Added support for an optional maximum document width.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/164 PR #164
* Added a link jump progress timeout so numbers typed some time apart don't concatenate.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/167 PR #167
* Added `jump_progress_timeout` to the configuration file to control the jump cancellation timeout.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/167 PR #167
* If an input to a capsule fails for some reason, and the user tries to post again, the input box is now pre-populated with the failed content for further editing.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/168 PR #168
* Added all application commands to the command line too (in `!snake_case` format).
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/169 PR #169
* Added a `GoToParent` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/173 PR #173
* Added a `GoToRoot` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/173 PR #173
* Added support for signifying if a link in a page has been visited before.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/175 PR #175
* Made the command-palette-based interfaces for history and bookmarks the primary interfaces, and turned the previous sidebar-based interfaces into secondary "manager" tools.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/176 PR #176

## v0.9.0

Released: 2026-07-16

* Added syntax highlighting to pre-formatted text blocks.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/153 PR #153
* Improved the links "stripe" visibility with various themes.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/154 PR #154
* The configuration loading code now filters out settings it doesn't know about.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/155 PR #155
* Added an input length display and guardrail to the user input dialog.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/156 PR #156

## v0.8.0

Released: 2026-07-15

* Fixed command line history not recording and recovering correctly.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/143 PR #143
* Added a confirmation step before externally opening unsupported locations or MIME types.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/144 PR #144
* Added keyboard shortcuts to the viewer for easily navigating between each of the links, with wrap-around.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/145 PR #145

## v0.7.0

Released: 2026-07-14

* Fixed a cosmetic issue with the horizontal truncation of the current location as shown in the viewer panel, when it is wider than the viewer.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/131 PR #131
* The command line suggestions now also include all hosts found in the trust store.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/132 PR #132
* Added known hosts from the trust store to the history search palette.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/137 PR #137
* Fixed a cosmetic issue with word-wrapping of the description of a link.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/141 PR #141
* Added support for numeric-based quick jumping to links in the viewer.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/141 PR #141
* Added a `StripeLinks` command to help alternating links stand out better.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/141 PR #141

## v0.6.0

Released: 2026-07-12

* Added support for client certificates.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/106 PR #106
* Pages opened from in-page links now bypass the cache.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/106 PR #106
* Fixed a layout issue with list items.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/111 PR #111
* Fixed bookmark search being available when there are no bookmarks to search.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/112 PR #112
* Added `connection_timeout` as a configuration option.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/113 PR #113
* Added `read_timeout` as a configuration option.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/113 PR #113
* Added `maximum_redirects` as a configuration option.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/113 PR #113
* When a page needs a client-side certificate to load, a key icon is shown in the viewer's title bar.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/114 PR #114
* Pages that need a client-side certificate are now always excluded from the content cache.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/114 PR #114
* Fixed the way history is recorded so that "post"-type URIs don't end up dropping into history and potentially resulting in duplicate inputs being sent to capsules.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/119 PR #119

## v0.5.0

Released: 2026-07-10

* Added the MIME type of the document to the viewer's status bar.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/70 PR #70
* Handle showing plain text content without attempting to render it as Gemtext.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/71 PR #71
* Added support for working out the type of a local file when the user goes to view it.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/72 PR #72
* MIME types that can't be handled are all now handed off to the operating system's web browser.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/73 PR #73
* Added the ability to remove individual items from the location history.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/74 PR #74
* Added the ability to clear all locations from the location history.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/74 PR #74
* Added `home_page` to the configuration file.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/75 PR #75
* Added a `GoHome` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/75 PR #75
* Added a `SetHome` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/75 PR #75
* Added a `SetHomeToCurrentLocation` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/75 PR #75
* Added support for bookmarks.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/78 PR #78
* Added navigation history, location history and bookmarks as application command line completion suggestions.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/83 PR #83
* Added a `SeachHistory` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/86 PR #86
* Adjacent paragraphs in a Gemini document are now consolidated into a single widget.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/91 PR #91
* Cleaned up unnecessary empty lines between quote blocks.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/92 PR #92
* When showing a source view of a page, escape sequences are now shown as markup, rather than parsed and rendered.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/94 PR #94
* When a document is loaded, the viewer now automatically gains focus.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/100 PR #100
* Added shortened versions of history, location history and bookmarks as application command line completion suggestions.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/103 PR #103
* Added a content cache for content loaded from remote capsules.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/104 PR #104

## v0.4.0

Released: 2026-06-28

* Added a `Reload` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/58 PR #58
* Added a `CopyLocationToClipboard` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/61 PR #61
* Added a `CopyDocumentToClipboard` command.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/61 PR #61
* Added the ability to toggle between a rendered view and a source view.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/62 PR #62
* Added support for user input.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/64 PR #64

## v0.3.0

Released: 2026-06-26

* Added a configuration option to turn off link tooltips.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/44 PR #44
* Added a `directories` CLI command to print out the directories used by Rogallo.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/45 PR #45
* Added a `licnece` CLI command to print out the licence details for Rogallo.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/45 PR #45
* Added a `bindings` CLI command to print out the available commands for binding to keys, and their default bindings.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/45 PR #45
* Added a `themes` CLI command to print out the available themes.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/45 PR #45
* Added a `--theme` CLI switch for setting the theme.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/45 PR #45
* Added a `--version` CLI switch to print out the version of Rogallo.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/45 PR #45
* Added a `--help` CLI switch to print out the command line help.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/45 PR #45
* Added an `open` CLI command that allows a location to be opened from the command line.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/48 PR #48
* Added support for working with gemtext files in the local filesystem.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/49 PR #49
* Added support for typing scheme-less Gemini URIs into the application's command line.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/51 PR #51
* Added `disable_animations` as a configuration option (disables the default Textual animations, for those who might dislike them; which is probably anyone with good taste in terminal applications).
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/52 PR #52

## v0.2.0

Released: 2026-06-24

* Added tooltips to links that show the URI when hovered over with the mouse.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/23 PR #23
* Improved the handling of redirected requests.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/24 PR #24
* Improved the detection of links.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/26 PR #26
* Improved the detection of headings.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/29 PR #29
* Improved the detection of quotes.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/31 PR #31
* Allowed non-standard list items, that use a tab rather than a space after the `*`.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/33 PR #33
* Added a status bar to the viewer widget to show the URI of the currently-selected link.
=> https://github.com/davep/rogallo/pull/35 PR #35

## v0.1.0

Released: 2026-06-23

* Initial release.

## v0.0.1

Released: 2026-06-18

* Initial placeholder package to test that the name is available in PyPI.

